All right, so continuing further
from the last video which says, hey,
why do you want to learn Python?
The easiest answer would be
because it's easy.
That is why I want to learn it.
And most, for most
of the people it is actually true.
And I also started with Python
because it was super easy to learn
and eventually I switched to other
languages which I also enjoy.
But still I come back onto
the Python every now and then.
So the first reason that
you want to learn about it
is it's really portable.
Yeah, once the program is being
written in the Python they can
actually go ahead and run on variety
of operating system including
Windows, Mac and everybody's
favorite Linux as well.
So there is no such thing as
hey, I've written this,
you need exact same system.
No, it's not like that.
Once it's being written it can
be used on anywhere at all.
That's the first major
advantage of it.
Also another example is Python is
very, very readable and it's
super easy to guess what things
are doing, as long as you
maintain some form of readability
in your code as well, but it's
fairly readable.
Whatever you are doing, it's very
kind of predictable.
And I like predictability.
And one of the major reason why
this language even was invented
is for productive reasons.
Writing code in Java and C
definitely could be a little bit
faster, you can do the same
task but you can also do
the same task in Python as well.
Almost same, almost all task and it's
meant to be productive, friendly.
Python and Java code
looks too verbose.
There is a steep learning
curve for that.
But Python you can pick it
up pretty quickly.
Within a week you can pick
up decent Python.
And that is one of the reason,
other reason why everybody love
this is something known as
STL or I will call this one as
easier one standard library.
What do you mean by standard library?
A lot of code is already being
written in the Python and people
are very generous that they
have open sourced their code.
That means those codes are available
for you even to use commercially.
And that is the reason, one of
the reason why it's getting popular
in the world of data science
and machine learning and AI.
Hundreds, probably not hundred
millions of people have
written the code and made it
available for people, hey, go
ahead and use it for free.
And this huge standard library,
availability of the code built
in tools is the reason why
everybody loves and we will
learn a lot about pre built
libraries and we just import
these code.
It's like moving up here so
somebody has created this class.
All I got to do is bring up this part
of it and now I can use it.
I am commercially allowed to use
this piece of code from somebody
else's code that makes it
super powerful as a language.
So this is the beauty of it.
Now apart from this, this
language is actually
pretty flexible and multi use.
So I'll call this one as multi use.
So Python a lot of people
think is just terminal or
just for data science.
But no, it can actually use
for a lot of web apps.
Yes, you can build full
stack application with it.
We use it actually in that majorly.
We can do a lot of automation stuff.
We can do a lot of data science,
data manipulation, CSVs,
even for machine learning AI.
It's really a lot and my most
important reason is most favorite is
I call this one as
simply Chai level happiness.
So yeah, this language is super
amazing to learn and you enjoy
every bit of writing of it and I'll
make sure that you actually
go through with each part of it.
So this whole thing is at one place.
But this is my reason for using.
It's a Chai level happiness
that you get through writing
the code for this language.
And I will show you some of my
neat tricks and my super easy
scripts that I use still
to this date and every day
to do some of my regular tasks.
So these are my reason why I use
Python and I'm pretty sure you
will also leave some of your reason
to learn the Python or enjoy
the Python or write the Python.
Please do tweet me out.
I would love to know your reason
why you are using Python
or you want to learn Python.
Probably it will help me
to improve to make these
kinds of videos as well.
Let's catch up in the next video.